
[TOC]

[Bucket sort](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bucket_sort)

Bucket sort, or bin sort, is a sorting algorithm that works by distributing the elements of an array into a number of buckets. Each bucket is then sorted individually, either using a different sorting algorithm, or by recursively applying the bucket sorting algorithm.

Bucket sort works as follows:

1. Set up an array of initially empty "buckets".
2. **Scatter**: Go over the original array, putting each object in its bucket.
3. Sort each non-empty bucket.
4. **Gather**: Visit the buckets in order and put all elements back into the original array.

---

`bin`: n. 垃圾桶；储物箱；瓶酒搁架；统计堆栈

> recycling bin: 回收站。

## ref1

《Introduction to Algorithms(4e)》P215 8.4 Bucket sort

Bucket sort assumes that the input is drawn from a uniform distribution and has an average-case running time of `O(n)`. Like counting sort, bucket sort is fast because it assumes something about the input.

Whereas **counting sort** assumes that the input consists of integers in a small range, **bucket sort** assumes that the input is generated by a random process that distributes elements uniformly and independently over the interval [0,1).

Bucket sort divides the interval [0,1) into n equal-sized subintervals, or ***buckets***, and then distributes the `$n$` input numbers into the buckets.

## ref2

《Essential Algorithms_a Practical Approach to Computer Algorithms》 P157 Bucketsort - M buckets

The bucketsort algorithm (also called bin sort) works by dividing items into buckets. It sorts the buckets either by recursively calling bucketsort or by using some other algorithm and then concatenates the buckets’ contents back into the original array.

## ref3

《Clifford A. Shaffer - Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis(3e)-2012》 P252 7.7 Binsort and Radix Sort

Imagine that for the past year, as you paid your various bills, you then simply piled all the paperwork onto the top of a table somewhere. Now the year has ended and its time to sort all of these papers by what the bill was for (phone, electricity, rent, etc.) and date. A pretty natural approach is to make some space on the ﬂoor, and as you go through the pile of papers, put the phone bills into one pile, the electric bills into another pile, and so on. Once this initial assignment of bills to piles is done (in one pass), you can sort each pile by date relatively quickly because they are each fairly small. This is the basic idea behind a Binsort.

## ref4

《The Algorithm Design Manual(3e)-2020》 P136 4.7 Distribution Sort: Sorting via Bucketing

**typical scenario**: To sort names for a class roster or the telephone book, we could ﬁrst partition them according to the ﬁrst letter of the last name. This will create twenty-six diﬀerent piles, or buckets, of names. Observe that any name in the J pile must occur after all names in the I pile, and before any name in the K pile. Therefore, we can proceed to sort each pile individually and just concatenate the sorted piles together at the end.

- Bucketing is a very eﬀective idea whenever we are conﬁdent that the distribution of data will be roughly **uniform**.
- It is the idea that underlies hash tables, kd-trees, and a variety of other practical data structures.
- The downside of such techniques is that the performance can be terrible when the data distribution is not what we expected.
